The focus of this project will be to understand how I use object-oriented programming to make it more efficient

This application contains the following functions
- fetch all the available books in the library
- add new books
- keep a track of borrowed books
- update the details based on the books returned

This project uses lists, dictionaries, strings, loops, conditionals, and more.
Whilst implementing File handling and Object-Oriented Programming.

The major focus of the project is to implement object-oriented programming.

The very first step from the user's point of view would be to display the menu of the library management application
Following would be the main menu options:-
- display books
- lend a book
- add a book
- return a book

Depending on the choice entered, we would need to perform the operation and return the details to the output screen
The above process has to be done repeatedly until the user quits.

My Approach

The idea behind using OOP is to bring the factor of re-usability.
Therefore, this software can be used by as many libraries as needed by just creating a new object.
All the other functionalities would be inside the class handled by individual methods that can be invoked using the object whenever needed

Note: I have not mentioned the lendDictionary in the parameters of _init_ since I don't want to pass it at the time of object creation

Once the class was created, I then started adding behaviors to the class. Which is the methods for each different functionality
Below is a list of the each method and functionality below.
- Add new books = addbook()
- Fetch all available books in the library = displayBooks()
- Keep a track of borrowed books = lendBook()
- Update the details based on the books returned = returnBook()

Inside my displayBooks() method, I have a print statement that will print the name of the library ( for this I have used the Fstrings)
The 'self' keyword can access the attributes
Finally, I loop through the book list and print the names of the book

I used the Membership operator to check whether an element already exists in the list

One of my main functions of my library management system would be to keep a record of the books borrowed by the consumers/students

I used the update method to insert specified items to the dictionary where the specified items can be a dictionary or an iterable object with values

The pop() method removes and returns an element from a dictionary having the given key

Now I will create a menu that will accept inputs from users
Since these methods are inside the class, I will need the object to access them
I will create a loop that will run until the user breaks it
Until then, I will keep accepting the input from the applications user.

One thing to notice is that I have wrapped the whole part of a code inside a method which we have given a name as main()
this method will be outside the library class
I have just created a menu to accept the input from the user.
using the syntax library.methodName to make the calls to the required method.

